= Blog Engine

A minimalist blog engine for your Ruby on Rails site.

= Usage

=== Posting

To post content, create a file in app/views/posts with post_ as a prefix to the filename.

==== Example

If you want to make a post called Hello World, you would create a file called app/views/posts/post_hello_world.html.erb and fill the file with the content of your blog post.

  # app/views/posts/post_hello_world.html.erb
  <h1>Hello World</h1>

  <p>This is my first blog post using Blog Engine</p>

Any file in app/views/posts matching the pattern of post_* is considered a blog post.

Note that you can use whatever rendering engine your Rails installation supports: Erb, Haml, etc.

=== Posts Index

A default posts index view is provided, but you'll probably want to override this. To do this you create your own app/views/posts/index.html.erb ...

  # app/views/posts/index.html.erb
  <h1>My Awesome Blog</h1>

  <ul>
    <% for post in @posts do %>
    <li><%= link_to post.title, post %> <%= post.updated_at %></li>
    <% end %>
  </ul>

The Post class has the following public class methods: all, find(id). The all method will return an array of Post objects, ordered by most recent post first.

Post objects have the following attributes:

  path - The path of the actual post file
  id - The post name via the path. E.g. post_hello_world.html.erb is hello_world
  title - A humanized id.
  updated_at - Time the file was last updated according to File::mtime.

==== ATOM Feed

An ATOM index is built for you automatically as part of the plugin. You can reference the ATOM feed using posts_url(:format=>'atom') ...

  <link rel="alternate" type="application/atom+xml" title="Brown Beagle Software" href="<%= posts_url(:format=>'atom') %>" >

=== Show Post

There's already a default posts/show action in the plugin that renders the post title, date, and content within your default layout. You can override this format easily by creating your own app/views/posts/show.html.erb

Here's what the default app/views/posts/show.html.erb looks like ...

  # app/views/posts/show.html.erb
  <h1><%= @post.title %></h1>
  <h2><%= @post.updated_at.strftime('%d %B %Y') %></h2>
  <%= render :file => 'posts/post_'+@post.id %>
  
= TODO

There's no support for comments, pingbacks, or trackbacks yet.

There's also some hard coded file paths and ATOM values in there that I would like to remove eventually.

= Credits

Blog Engine is maintained by {Alex Pooley}[mailto:alex@brownbeagle.com.au], and is funded by {Brown Beagle Software}[http://www.brownbeagle.com.au].

= License
Blog Engine is Copyright (c) 2009 Alex Pooley, Brown Beagle Software. It is free software, and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the MIT-LICENSE file.
